# Module 2: Pondering Paths
This module introduces us to the Linux Filesystem. It is structured like a tree with a root directory `/` with files and directories being referred by paths.

The first and second challenge is to invoke a program by using the absolute path (should start from root directory).

The third and fourth challenge shows us the `cd` command which allows us to change directories and in turn, the path to a program as well.

The next concept is of relative paths. They don't start with `/` and are interpreted relative to the current working directory. Thus, the subsequent challenges require us to use relative paths to reach the `/challenge/run` program and obtain our flag.

There are also some special directory references used
in the challenges like:
* `.` refers to the current directory.
* `..` refers to the parent directory.

We also got to know that the home directory, in this
case /home/hacker is represented by `~` in the shell.
This also leads us to Path Expansion where:
* The shell expands `~` to the full home directory
path.
* Only the leading `~` is expanded in a path. For example, `~/~` will be expanded to `/home/hacker/~`
rather than `/home/hacker/home/hacker`.
# Challenges
## The Root
Launch a terminal, invoke the pwn program using its absolute path `/pwn`.

`pwn.college{gB4eFc5gPZEdMtjNCspJKA40DqZ.dhzN5QDL5MTM1czW}`
## Program and absolute paths
Applying the concept of 'absolute path' to access the program 'run' which is in the 'challenge' directory. Thus, the path to the run challenge program is `/challenge/run`.

`pwn.college{0wpWydb-W128ohkmrWSiXKVEtKt.dVDN1QDLxITN0czW}`
## Position thy self
When `/challenge/run` is first invoked here, it gives us an error and a directory to go into. Using the cd command, we enter the directory and invoke the program again.
```
hacker@paths~position-thy-self:~$ /challenge/run
Incorrect...
You are not currently in the /usr/aarch64-linux-gnu/include/gnu directory.
Please use the `cd` utility to change directory appropriately.
hacker@paths~position-thy-self:~$ cd /usr/aarch64-linux-gnu/include/gnu
hacker@paths~position-thy-self:/usr/aarch64-linux-gnu/include/gnu$ /challenge/run
Correct!!!
/challenge/run is an absolute path, invoked from the right directory!
Here is your flag:
pwn.college{kiqAtDqXMDXU4F1miuP83Ywrz8_.dZDN1QDLxITN0czW}
```

`pwn.college{QZLln2Vvrz8wPv3E5vWktirYksB.dZDN1QDL3IDO0czW}`
## Position elsewhere
Same as before.

`pwn.college{8CT151OMtf01i0JVdZaPMlCEuN0.ddDN1QDL5MTM1czW}`
## Position yet elsewhere
We are again doing the same thing as the last two challenges.

`pwn.college{EmUdf7m9iLfzXykDbDe0tTli2GG.dhDN1QDLxITN0czW}`
## implicit relative paths, from/
```
hacker@paths~implicit-relative-paths-from-:~$ cd /
hacker@paths~implicit-relative-paths-from-:/$ challenge/run
Correct!!!
challenge/run is a relative path, invoked from the right directory!
```

`pwn.college{A0SMSbc9TflGpoBamEbzIQgA7W7.dFTN1QDL5MTM1czW}`
## explicit relative paths, from/
```
hacker@paths~explicit-relative-paths-from-:/$ ./challenge/run
Correct!!!
./challenge/run is a relative path, invoked from the right directory!
```
`pwn.college{sSc-DcIIYKXz5MUT6Y-NWEqqX4l.dBTN1QDL5MTM1czW}`
## implicit relative path
Requires us to go into /challenge directory first and then using the relative path of the run program to run it.
```
hacker@paths~implicit-relative-path:~$ cd /challenge
hacker@paths~implicit-relative-path:/challenge$ ./run
Correct!!!
./run is a relative path, invoked from the right directory!
```
`pwn.college{IhdRAsLkUNZWFKrVyrqhbV4wVB3.dFTN1QDLxITN0czW}`
## home sweet home
Here, we are required to write the flag into a file in the `~ `which stands for `/home/hacker`. Hence by `~/a` we're giving the place for where the flag should be written and `/challenge/run` writes a copy of the flag in the required destination.
```
hacker@paths~home-sweet-home:~$ /challenge/run ~/a
Writing the file to /home/hacker/a!
... and reading it back to you:
```
`pwn.college{40jtMVWsV5Rdjq6eUd2zgd_w4VT.dNzM4QDL5MTM1czW}`
